A maniac that was wanted by nearly everyone
in the galaxy, from the Rebel Alliance to
even the Galactic Empire, the notorious Doctor
Evazan had the largest target on his back
as his crimes sickened every group and organization
that became aware of them.
Not only was he wanted by the two major galactic
powers of his era, but also 12 separate planetary
systems gave him the death penalty on their
own accord, and on top of that dozens of bounty
hunters and mercenaries went out of their
way to to hunt him down for either personal
reasons or to eliminate what they believed
was truly the most sickening man they’ve
ever heard of.
So who was Doctor Evazan and what did he do
that made him an enemy of nearly every being
in the entire galaxy?
First in Canon, Evazan was originally a mildly
successful surgeon who was known for his cosmetic
operations.
However during this time either something
snapped in his brain or he just decided to
stop pretending on being a sane individual,
as shortly into his career as a professional
cosmetic surgeon he started to do extreme
experiments on unwilling patients.
His early list of crimes consisted of mutilating
and killing hundreds of beings, with a few
of his experiments consisting of him rearranging
the limbs of his patients, leaving the few
who survived his operations to live out their
lives horrifically scarred.
He seemed to choose his victims randomly and
without care of where they came from, as a
few wealthy and well connected individuals
were known to lose a few of their family members
to his experiments.
He quickly became a high profile criminal
on his world and had a bounty placed on him
by local authorities.
The first bounty hunter to come across Evazan
ended up disfiguring his face.
He almost ended up being captured by the bounty
hunter had he not been saved by a nearby Aqualish
thug named Ponda.
Following their escape from the bounty hunter,
Ponda realized Evazan’s intelligence and
potential to be used to create a ton of wealth
for himself, so he convinced the doctor to
partner up with him and use his connections
to enter the criminal underworld.
Together Ponda and Evazan went on to become
partners in crime for a few years, which ranged
from smuggling to murder, and this earned
them a semi modest living.
During this short period, they both ended
up on the wanted lists of multiple star systems.
It wouldn’t be until in the later years
of their lives however, that they’d become
one of the most wanted individuals in the
galaxy.
As at this point Doctor Evazan decided to
conduct perhaps some of his most cruel experiments
that would be both felt and seen across multiple
planets.
His most infamous creations were the Decraniated.
These were beings that were kidnapped and
cybernetically modified to be turned into
obedient slaves, and many of them were later
sold to wealthy crimelords and the like.
The cybernetics that replaced their brains
took away their consciousness which in effect
eliminated who they were as a person before
the procedure, and they essentially became
mindless droids that were made to serve.
Some of the earliest victims of these creations
were taken from medic bays as well as soldiers
from both sides of the war who were injured
during a bloody battle.
Many of which actually came from the chaotic
moon of Jedha.
Doctor Evazan and Ponda were known to always
be on the move, leaving behind only a trail
of victims from their sick experiments as
evidence of their stay for every planet.
Not much else is known about the Doctor beyond
that, other than that a bounty hunter named
Tam Posla has been on their tail since at
least Jedha, and he has taken a personal vengeance
toward hunting Evazan down.
This same bounty hunter has also acquired
Ponda’s severed arm from the cantina, suggesting
he is getting awfully close to catching up
with Doctor Evazan and his partner.
In Legends, Doctor Evazan was known for being
a lunatic from the very start.
Early on in his life he tried to apply to
the Imperial Military.
However during the interview process, the
Imperials who interviewed him found him to
be so crazy of a person that they believed
he was a danger to society.
So they ended up sending Evazan to an Imperial
prison, but he was able to escape shortly
afterwards.
After his escape from prison he began to study
and practice cyborging and organic surgery,
with nearly all of his patients being unwilling
kidnapped beings.
His actions of course caught the eye of local
law enforcement agencies, which forced the
doctor to be on the move as he jumped from
planet to planet.
It wasn’t clear why he did what he did,
but one being suggested that Evazan was attempting
to find immortality and that he hoped his
experiments would lead him to said answer.
While his forced surgery experiments were
his most well known crimes, Evazan also dealt
in slaving and assassination jobs.
The origin of his deformed face and meeting
with Ponda was nearly identical to its canon
counterpart, where a bounty hunter had tracked
Evazan down and shot a blaster bolt that took
off half of the Doctor’s face.
He was almost about to be captured, had it
not been for the intervention of Ponda.
While they formed a somewhat uneasy friendship,
it quickly ended following their confrontation
with Luke and Obi Wan, where Ponda lost his
arm due to Evazan’s aggressive attitude.
The doctor promised to reattach the Aqualish’s
arm back through surgery, but failed to do
so.
This failure ended their relationship, in
which Ponda later swore to kill Evazan for
causing him to lose his arm.
However after about a year, the two came across
each other and made up.
They then began working together, where Evazan
believed he made a breakthrough on achieving
immortality, which was to transfer the mind
from the aging body it was trapped in.
After countless experiments on plenty more
innocent beings, Evazan eventually ended up
creating a few dozen zombies as he made progress
to achieving his goal.
It was around this time of his experiments
that the bounty hunter Boba Fett finally had
tracked him down and infiltrated the mad Doctor’s
laboratory.
After blasting away a few of the zombies that
were unleashed, Boba Fett successfully shot
and killed Doctor Evazan.
But wait, that wasn’t the end of his tale.
As prior to his death, Evazan had injected
himself with an updated serum that he had
used on his patients that turned them into
zombies.
So even though he was killed by Boba, Evazan
was able to eventually come back to life as
his body slowly reanimated itself.
Though unlike his other subjects, the Doctor
still had his mind, but it was implied his
body at that point looked like a dead corpse.
Though he wouldn’t remain alive long after
that, as he eventually died from a serum that
was used to wipe out the zombies he had created.
Although it was believed that was the end
of Doctor Evazan, there were reports and rumors
that he was still active 9 years following
the battle of Yavin.
Though it was never confirmed if that was
truly him or just a copycat that commited
similar criminal acts.